=pod


=head1 NAME

inetsim.conf - Configuration file for INetSim


=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<inetsim.conf> is the configuration file for B<inetsim>(1).

The format of I<inetsim.conf> is simple: one option per line, with blank
lines and lines starting with # ignored.


=head1 GLOBAL OPTIONS

=over 4

=item I<start_service SERVICE>

Start service SERVICE.

=item I<service_bind_address ADDRESS>

The IP address to bind services to.

=item I<service_run_as_user USER>

User to run services.

=item I<service_max_childs NUMBER>

Maximum number of child processes (number of parallel
connections) for each service.

=item I<service_timeout SECONDS>

Timeout in seconds after which a connection is closed
by the service.

=item I<[servicename]_bind_port PORT>

PORT number to bind service to.

=item I<create_reports [YES|NO]>

Create report with a summary of connections for the session on shutdown.

=item I<report_language LANGUAGE>

Set language for reports.


=back


=head1 FAKETIME OPTIONS

=over 4


=item I<faketime_init_delta SECONDS>

Initial number of seconds (positive or negative) relative to current
date/time for fake time used by all services. If set to '0', current
date/time is used.

=item I<faketime_auto_delay SECONDS>

Number of seconds to wait before incrementing/decrementing fake time
by amount of seconds specified with B<faketime_auto_increment>.
Setting to '0' disables this option.

=item I<faketime_auto_increment SECONDS>

Number of seconds by which fake time is incremented/decremented at regular
intervals specified by B<faketime_auto_delay>.
This option only takes effect if B<faketime_auto_delay> is enabled (not set
to '0').


=back


=head1 ADDITIONAL DNS OPTIONS

=over 4


=item I<dns_default_ip IP-ADDRESS>

Default IP address to return in DNS replies.

=item I<dns_default_hostname HOSTNAME>

Default hostname to return in DNS replies.

=item I<dns_default_domainname DOMAINNAME>

Default domainname to return in DNS replies.

=item I<dns_static FQDN_HOSTNAME IP-ADDRESS>

Static mapping for DNS.

=item I<dns_version STRING>

Version string to return.


=back


=head1 ADDITIONAL HTTP(S) OPTIONS

=over 4


=item I<http(s)_version>

Version string to return in HTTP(S) replies.

=item I<http(s)_fakemode [YES|NO]>

Turn HTTP(S) fake mode on or off.

=item I<http(s)_fakefile EXTENSION FILENAME MIMETYPE>

The fake files returned in fake mode based on the file extension in the HTTP(S) request.

=item I<http(s)_default_fakefile FILENAME MIMETYPE>

The default fake file and MIME type returned in fake mode if the file extension in the
HTTP(S) request does not match any of the extensions defined with B<http(s)_fakefile>.

=item I<http(s)_static_fakefile PATH FILENAME MIMETYPE>

The fake files returned in fake mode based on the path in the HTTP(S) request.


=back


=head1 ADDITIONAL SMTP(S) OPTIONS

=over 4


=item I<smtp(s)_banner STRING>

The banner string used in SMTP greeting message.

=item I<smtp(s)_fqdn_hostname FQDN_HOST>

The FQDN hostname used for SMTP.

=item I<smtp(s)_helo_required [YES|NO]>

Client has to send HELO/EHLO before any other command.

=item I<smtp(s)_extended_smtp>

Turn support for 'Extended SMTP' (ESMTP) on or off.

=item I<smtp(s)_service_extension EXTENSION [PARAMETER(S)]>

SMTP service extensions offered to client.

=item I<smtp(s)_auth_reversibleonly [YES|NO]>

Only offer authentication mechanisms which allow reversing the authentication information
sent by a client to clear text username/password.

=item I<smtp(s)_auth_required [YES|NO]>

Force the client to authenticate.


=back


=head1 ADDITIONAL POP3(S) OPTIONS

=over 4


=item I<pop3(s)_banner STRING>

The banner string used in POP3 greeting message.

=item I<pop3(s)_hostname HOST>

The hostname used in POP3 greeting message.

=item I<pop3(s)_mbox_maxmails NUMBER>

Maximum number of e-mails to select from supplied mbox files for creation of random POP3 mailbox.

=item I<pop3(s)_mbox_reread NUMBER>

Re-read supplied mbox files if POP3 service was inactive for <NUMBER> seconds.

=item I<pop3(s)_mbox_rebuild NUMBER>

Rebuild random POP3 mailbox if POP3 service was inactive for <NUMBER> seconds.

=item I<pop3(s)_auth_reversibleonly [YES|NO]>

Only offer authentication mechanisms which allow reversing the authentication information
sent by a client to clear text username/password.

=item I<pop3(s)_enable_apop [YES|NO]>

Turn APOP on or off.

=item I<pop3(s)_enable_capabilities [YES|NO]>

Turn support for pop3 capabilities on or off.

=item I<pop3(s)_capability CAPABILITY [PARAMETER(S)]>

POP3 capabilities offered to client.


=back


=head1 ADDITIONAL FTP(S) OPTIONS

=over 4


=item I<ftp(s)_banner STRING>

The banner string used in FTP greeting message.

=item I<ftp(s)_version STRING>

Version string to return in replies to the STAT command.

=item I<ftp(s)_recursive_delete [YES|NO]>

Allow recursive deletion of directories, even if they are not empty.


=back


=head1 ADDITIONAL TFTP OPTIONS

=over 4


=item I<tftp_allow_overwrite [YES|NO]>

Allow overwriting of existing files.

=item I<tftp_enable_options [YES|NO]>

Turn support for tftp options on or off.

=item I<tftp_option OPTION PARAMETER(S)>

TFTP options offered to client.


=back


=head1 ADDITIONAL NTP OPTIONS

=over 4


=item I<ntp_server_ip IP-ADDRESS>

The IP address to return in NTP replies.

=item I<ntp_strict_checks [YES|NO]>

Turn strict checks for client packets on or off.


=back


=head1 ADDITIONAL IRC OPTIONS

=over 4


=item I<irc_fqdn_hostname FQDN_HOST>

The FQDN hostname used for IRC.

=item I<irc_version STRING>

Version string to return.


=back


=head1 ADDITIONAL DUMMY OPTIONS

=over 4


=item I<dummy_banner STRING>

Banner string sent to client if no data has been received for
B<dummy_banner_wait> seconds since the client has established
the connection. If set to an empty string (""), only CRLF will
be sent. This option only takes effect if B<dummy_banner_wait>
is not set to '0'.

=item I<dummy_banner_wait NUMBER>

Number of seconds to wait for client sending any data after
establishing a new connection. If no data has been received
within this amount of time, B<dummy_banner> will be sent to
the client. Setting to '0' disables sending of a banner string.


=back


=head1 REDIRECT OPTIONS

=over 4


=item I<redirect_enabled [YES|NO]>

Turn connection redirection on or off.

=item I<redirect_unknown_services [YES|NO]>

Redirect connection attempts to unbound ports to dummy service.

=item I<redirect_external_address IP-ADDRESS>

IP address used as source address if B<INetSim> acts as a router for redirecting packets to external
networks.
This option only takes effect if static rules for redirecting packets to external networks are
defined (see B<redirect_static_rule>).

=item I<redirect_static_rule PROTOCOL IP-ADDRESS:PORT IP-ADDRESS:PORT>

Static mappings for connection redirection.

=item I<redirect_change_ttl [YES|NO]>

Change the time-to-live header field to a random value in outgoing IP packets.

=item I<redirect_exclude_port PROTOCOL:PORT>

Connections to <service_bind_address> on this port
are not redirected.

=item I<redirect_ignore_bootp [YES|NO]>

If set to 'yes', BOOTP (DHCP) broadcasts will not be redirected (UDP packets with source
address 0.0.0.0, port 68 and destination address 255.255.255.255, port 67 or vice versa).

=item I<redirect_ignore_netbios [YES|NO]>

If set to 'yes', NetBIOS broadcasts will not be redirected (UDP packets with
source/destination port 137/138 and destination address x.x.x.255 on the local network).

=item I<redirect_icmp_timestamp [MS|SEC|NO]>

If set to 'ms', ICMP Timestamp requests will be answered with number of milliseconds since midnight UTC according to faketime.
If set to 'sec', ICMP Timestamp requests will be answered with number of seconds since epoch (high order bit of the timestamp will be set to indicate non-standard value).
Setting to 'no' disables manipulation of ICMP Timestamp requests.

=back


=head1 SSL OPTIONS

=over 4

=item I<[servicename]_ssl_keyfile FILENAME>

Name of the SSL private key PEM file. The key MUST NOT be encrypted!

=item I<[servicename]_ssl_certfile FILENAME>

Name of the SSL certificate file.

=item I<[servicename]_ssl_dhfile FILENAME>

Name of the Diffie-Hellman parameter PEM file.


=back


=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4


B<inetsim>(1)

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

S<Matthias Eckert> E<lt>S<me@inetsim.org>E<gt>, 
S<Thomas Hungenberg> E<lt>S<th@inetsim.org>E<gt>

=cut
