=pod


=head1 NAME

B<inetsim> - INetSim is a suite for simulating common internet services


=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<inetsim>
[B<--config> <I<configuration file>>]
[B<--version>]
[B<--data-dir> <I<data directory>>]
[B<--log-dir> <I<log directory>>]
[B<--report-dir> <I<report directory>>]
[B<--bind-address> <I<ip address>>]
[B<--max-childs> <I<maximum child processes>>]
[B<--user> <I<user name>>]
[B<--faketime-init-delta> <I<initial time delta>>]
[B<--faketime-auto-delay> <I<delay time>>]
[B<--faketime-auto-incr> <I<stepwidth>>]
[B<--session> <I<session name>>]
[B<--pidfile> <I<pid file>>]


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<INetSim> simulates common internet services like
I<DNS>, I<HTTP>, I<SMTP> or I<POP3>.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<--config> <I<configuration file>>

The configuration file to use, default is conf/inetsim.conf in the current directory.

=item B<--version>

Output version information.

=item B<--data-dir> <I<data directory>>

The data directory to use, default is data/ in the current directory.

=item B<--log-dir> <I<log directory>>

The log directory to use, default is log/ in the current directory.

=item B<--report-dir> <I<report directory>>

The report directory to use, default is report/ in the current directory.

=item B<--bind-address> <I<IP address>>

The IP address to bind services to.

=item B<--max-childs> <I<maximum child processes>>

The maximum number of child processes (number of parallel connections) for
each service. Default is 10.

=item B<--user> <I<username>>

User to run services. Default is 'nobody'.

=item B<--faketime-init-delta> <I<initial time delta>>

Initial number of seconds (positive or negative) relative to current
date/time for fake time used by all services. This overrides the
option 'faketime-init-delta' in the configuration file.
Default is 0 (use current date/time).

=item B<--faketime-auto-delay> <I<delay time>>

Number of seconds to wait before incrementing or decrementing fake time
by amount of seconds specified with B<faketime-auto-incr>.
Setting to '0' disables this option. This overrides the option
'faketime-auto-delay' in the configuration file.
Default is 0 (disabled).

=item B<--faketime-auto-incr> <I<stepwidth>>

Number of seconds by which fake time is incremented or decremented at
regular intervals specified by B<faketime_auto_delay>. This option only
takes effect if B<faketime-auto-delay> is enabled (not set to '0').
This overrides the option 'faketime-auto-incr' in the configuration file.
Default is 3600.

=item B<--session> <I<session name>>

Session name to use, default is the PID of the parent process.

=item B<--pidfile> <I<pid file>>

The pid file to use, default is /var/run/inetsim.pid.

=back


=head1 EXAMPLES

Start the simulation with session name 'simtest5'

	# inetsim --session simtest5

Start the simulation with a one-day-jump to the future after 60 seconds

	# inetsim --faketime-auto-delay 60 --faketime-auto-incr 86400

dito, but with jump to the past

	# inetsim --faketime-auto-delay 60 --faketime-auto-incr -86400


=head1 REQUIRES

Perl 5, Getopt::Long, Net::Server, Net::DNS, IO::Handle, IO::Socket,
IO::Select, IPC::Shareable, Digest::SHA, File::Copy, MIME::Base64,
IPTables::IPv4::IPQueue (optional)


=head1 AUTHOR

S<Matthias Eckert> E<lt>S<me@inetsim.org>E<gt>, 
S<Thomas Hungenberg> E<lt>S<th@inetsim.org>E<gt>

=cut
